Over the last couple of months,
our first guest's leadership
has not only helped
the state of New York,
but also the whole nation cope
with these uncertain times.
Please welcome the governor
of New York, Andrew Cuomo.
[CLAPPING]
Good to be with you.
Thank you, Ellen.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for your leadership.
Thanks for taking the time.
You're a very busy man.
And everybody loves
you right now.
I think you can feel
the love from us.
But you've always been
honest and upfront
about the information,
and we've needed that.
You must feel how necessary what
you're doing is for all of us
right now.
Well, thank you.
This situation became so
bizarre so quickly, Ellen.
What we were asking people
to do was extraordinary--
lock yourself in your
house, close your business,
don't go out-- just
think about it.
So government really
doesn't have the ability
to enforce that.
The only way to get
it done was really
to give people the facts,
explain the situation,
and then they had
to agree to do it.
It was almost a
voluntary compliance.
And New Yorkers can be a
difficult, cynical bunch.
And I knew we were asking them
to do extraordinary things.
So I just laid out the facts.
And I said, here are the facts,
this is what you need to know,
I recommend this,
and this is why.
But I needed them to
buy in, especially given
the degree of
difficulty that we were
going to have to actually
implement these things.
And you know, people are smart.
If you give them the facts,
and they trust the facts,
and they trust the person
who's giving them the facts,
they will do the right thing.
And I think that's what
the people in New York did.
And I think that's what you've
seen across the country.
Yeah, absolutely.
But especially New York because
it was a hotspot early on.
And now the state is
doing well, right?
Right now, the numbers
are on the way down.
We still have a higher number of
cases than just about anywhere
else.
And also, interestingly,
they're now
discovering that we were
all looking at China--
by the time we acted
on China, the virus
had been out of China,
had gone to Europe,
and the virus that
actually came to New York
came from Europe, not
China, and much earlier
than we even thought.
Yeah.
I'm hearing that
possibly in California it
was here in October.
Well, we were hearing about it--
there's so many lessons
to learn when we go back
and do the
retrospective on this--
but we were hearing about it
in November, December in China,
right?
Global pandemic, yeah--
the virus gets on a plane,
and it goes to Europe,
and it goes to New York,
and it goes to California.
So there is there's no time to
delay in a situation like this.
And I think we all have
a lot to learn from this
because by the time we actually
acted and enacted travel bans,
we were closing the
door on the barn
and the horse was already gone.
I think that's clear.
Yeah.
It's so devastating
because I think
nobody really thought about
a pandemic except maybe
Bill Gates.
But there are a lot of
people who didn't know
that this was a possibility.
And then it's a whole
new level because we
haven't had this for 100 years.
But we have the
economy that's affected
in a different way that--
we didn't realize
the effect that it's
going to have on everything.
And it's hard to wrap
our heads around how
we're all going to get back
to some sense of normalcy.
Well, you're right.
Global pandemic-- if you
look at the textbooks,
they've been talking
about a global pandemic
for a long time.
But they've been talking about
a lot of things for a long time.
And you're right,
we never had it
so it was never
actualized for us.
We didn't really fully
experience what it was like.
Then it happens, no
one's been here before,
it's a scramble for
everyone on every level.
This action that we're
taking is unprecedented.
And we don't even know what the
future is, which is probably
the first time in my
lifetime that we've
been in this situation.
And no one can tell
you what's going
to happen one month, two months,
three months down the road.
So it's all uncharted territory.
You have to keep moving
forward, take the next step,
be the most educated as
you can in the next step.
But it's a very difficult
time when people are basically
out of control, nobody
can give them answers,
nobody knows the future.
And then, the only hard point
you have is, well, at one point
we'll have a vaccine.
And then you can really be
safe when we have the vaccine.
But we don't know if
we're going to have
a vaccine for 12 months,
or 14 months, or 18 months.
But then we also have
a vaccine for the flu,
and people get
vaccinated for the flu,
and they get the flu anyway.
Yeah, or they get a
mutation of the flu anyway.
But at one point, we'll have
a vaccine for this virus.
The virus may mutate, come
back in a mutated form,
and you'd need a
vaccine for that.
But you'd be starting
with the first vaccine.
So there's no doubt
that the vaccine is
going to be very helpful, and
I think give people comfort.
What I'm wondering is
when people actually
have comfort again.
Because we can say--
just the way we needed
buy-in to close down,
you're going to need
buy-in to open up.
I can stand up and say,
don't worry, it's safe,
everybody get back on the subway
and get back on the buses.
It's not going to be that easy.
They started to reopen
China and people were
very slow to come back, right?
They now get the
severity of this issue
and they're going to have to
believe that the danger is
abated before they
resume life as usual,
especially in a
city like New York
where it is all
about the density.
We had the cases coming
from Europe and nobody knew.
But this spread, it's like
fire through dry grass
because you can't
socially distance
in New York City, right?
You can't walk down a sidewalk
and be socially distant.
You can't ride a subway
Los Angeles, California,
it's a different geography,
different density.
So people are going
to really have
to feel comfortable before
they go back to normal, that's
for sure-- if there
ever is a back to normal
or a new normal as
we talk about it.
Yeah, I think that's the thing.
It will be a new normal
because I can't imagine
what it's going to be like to--
even when we have
the vaccine, I think
we've all become so scared of
all the different symptoms.
They keep surprising us.
There's all these new
things that you hear about
that we didn't know that were
the headaches, or the fever,
or the asymptomatic,
or the blood clots.
It just keeps surprising us
in different ways, right?
Oh no, I think that's for sure.
And look, you'll have in the
back of your mind always, well,
what's the next one going to be?
What's the next
public health risk?
Is this coronavirus coming back?
Is it another virus coming back?
There's going to
be a form of PTSD,
I think, for a
generation, right?
It was after 9/11
happened in New York.
Everybody was affected by 9/11.
You heard a bang in New York
for five years afterwards
and everybody jumped, you know?
It just introduces into your
psyche a whole new fear.
Yeah.
Right.
OK, we have to take
a break and then
we're going to talk some
more with Governor Cuomo.
Take a break here.
That's what I just said.
OK.
And we're back.
Andy?
I just wanted to say one thing.
A lot of Ellen's
staff-- myself included,
some of the producers,
Lauren, and Johnny, and Mary--
we're all native New Yorkers.
And I can tell you
that across the board--
my mother is 82, sitting in
her apartment in Manhattan--
and across the
board, what we keep
hearing is what a great job
you're doing bringing comfort
to these people.
And it is so
important, at a time
where there's a lack of some
honest information coming out,
to have someone like you.
And I think it's
why you've resonated
across the whole country,
because people can tell honesty
and we appreciate that.
Well, thank you.
Absolutely.
I was just going to
say, Andy is my producer
and he's only
allowed in the garden
because we're
socially distancing.
So he can only
talk from the yard.
That's why he's out there.
Yeah.
No, I noticed him out there.
[CHUCKLES] I was going
to say something but
I thought better of it.
But thank you for
your nice words.
Look-- and as I said
in the beginning--
we needed people to buy in, so
I wanted them to have the facts
and I wanted to have
the information.
And I also wanted to
communicate that this is not
a governmental issue.
It is a social issue.
It's a personal issue.
People are afraid.
People are anxious.
They've never been here before.
They have all sorts of pressure
that they've never had before.
You know, we have domestic
violence going up.
We have mental health
issues going up.
This is an extraordinarily
stressful time,
and it is for everyone.
So I wanted people to know that,
look, I feel it also, you know?
I'm going through it in my life.
I'm worried about my family.
I'm worried about my mother.
And then you're in this hellish
situation where you can't even
go see the people who you love,
who you want to reach out to.
I can't even go see my mother.
She gets offended when I say
it, but she's a senior person.
I'm out there,
I'm moving around,
who knows what I'm exposed to?
I can't even go see her.
You're afraid to
hug someone, you're
afraid to kiss
someone at this time
when you need comfort
probably more than you've ever
needed it.
It is like a hell where you are
isolated not just in your home,
you're isolated personally at a
time when you need association
and you need relationships
probably more than ever.
So it works on so
many levels and it's
so upsetting and disturbing.
And again, nobody can tell
you when it ends, how it ends.
Look, I think we've never been
through anything like this.
I think, Ellen, we're actually
better on the other side,
right?
You talk about the World
War II generation, people
who have gone through
real crises in their life
and you learn from it.
Maybe it hardens you and
you come back better.
But it's going to be life
changing, hard, disruptive,
and we will never be the same.
I just hope we're better for it.
Well, I can tell you one
thing-- we have to take a break,
but I can tell you
one thing-- just,
you are a calming voice in this.
Like Andy said, even though
it's all disturbing news
and it's all sad, we watch
you and feel better listening
to you because we know
that it's the real truth.
And we're getting comforted,
no matter how bad the news is,
because it's coming from you.
We have to take a break.
More with Governor
Cuomo after this.